Now that we had a look at the basics about nodejs, what we can do with it and now that we even used it,
let me walk you through the content of this course and explain what's in the course and where you can
find what. We're almost done getting started and in the next module,
I will give you a brief javascript refresher, just to make sure we're all on the same page regarding
the core javascript syntax but more importantly, about some next gen javascript features which we'll
use in the course. Basic javascript knowledge is assumed and will not be taught in that module
but if you just need a refresher,
some additional information or this next gen javascript knowledge, then this is a module you should take
otherwise it's optional.
Now after this refresher or immediately after this module,
if you don't need the refresher we'll dive into the nodejs basics,
how it generally works, how we can work with streams of data and some core nodejs modules,
so really the nitty gritty details you need to know about the language, so to say.
And we'll then dive into efficiently developing with nodejs
.
how you can debug your code, handle errors and so on.
Now thereafter we'll dive into expressjs,
the most popular framework you can use for nodejs.
I'll explain why we use it and why we still in it's heart use nodejs, why we still learn about nodejs
even though we use epressjs because using it makes sense, it makes things easier,
you will use it if you are working with nodejs but still of course, we still use nodejs
with all of that. Now
thereafter we'll dive into templating engines. That are basically some tools you could say that allow
you to generate html pages on the server with dynamic content encoded in them and that is how you can
return different pages or pages with different content
back to your users,
so that will be an important module.
Now thereafter, we'll dive into the model view controller pattern, what that is and why we use it
and of course how we use it and we'll then have a look at some advanced routing concepts.
Routing is something we'll also learn in the expressjs module and we'll dive deep into the models of
the model view controller pattern.
Now after we're done with that, it's time to dive into databases,
I will start by connecting our node application with a SQL database,
MySQL
to be precise. As a next step, we'll dive deeper into that and use a package that makes working with SQL
databases easier,
Sequelize. Now and after having seen SQL, we'll continue with NoSQL and see how we would use that
and I'll use Mongoose there to also make working with that easier and we'll then stick to NoSQL for the rest
of the course but you'll thoroughly learn both SQL and NoSQL. Now after this, we'll dive into sessions
and cookies,
what it is, why you use it and how you use it.
We'll have a look at authentication,
so how we can make sure that users can sign up and sign in with our application. We'll dive into sending
emails, how that would work,
how can we auto-generate emails when a user signs up for example.
We'll also dive into advanced authentication features and also authorization which means that for
example only a user who created a product can edit or delete it.
We'll then have a look at user input validation which is a crucial part in any web application because
you want to make sure that the data your users enter into your forms is correct and valid and you'll
learn how you can do that efficiently
in this module. And we'll then dive into error handling because errors will happen,
for example if the user enters wrong input and I will show you how you can handle different kinds of
errors in an elegant way.
Now thereafter, we'll dive into something important,
file up and downloads.
How can you handle these,
how can you write code that takes incoming files, stores them and is able to return files?
I'll also show you how you can automatically generate pdf documents on the server in this module.
Well then have a look at pagination,
so how we can return our data in chunks instead of all the data at once
which is not ideal for your bandwidth.
We'll thereafter have a look at async request and I'll explain what that is and how we can handle it
with nodejs and we'll then dive into payments,
how can we accept payments through a service called stripejs,
obviously something we'll need in any shop we build. And thereafter, we'll dive into a different kind of
application you can build with nodejs,
we'll dive into rest
APIs and one module does not sound like a lot of content on this very important technology
but actually I got two modules on that and we'll also dive into file uploads and rest APIs,
authentication, pagination, all that stuff
and additionally these modules will build up on the entire modules before that because you will learn
that rest API does not differ that much from a normal node application
and I will show you in detail which knowledge you still need and how you need to change some things,
not that many actually to turn an existing application into a rest
API. Now
and once we're done with that, I will dive into a more modern javascript feature,
async await and how you can use that in your node application and we'll dive into web socket and
socket IO. This is a technology or a set of technologies that allows you to add real time functionalities
to your app,
so for example if one user sends a message and you instantly want to notify another user you can use
web sockets for that
and I will show how it works in this module. After this module, we'll dive into a different kind of API,
we had a look at rest APIs, we'll then have a look at graphQL APIs. GraphQL is a very modern and
popular way of building APIs,
it has some advantages over rest
APIs, also some disadvantages
and I will dive into GraphQL and how it differs from rest APIs in this module and I will show
you how to build a GraphQL API from scratch with nodejs and this will be quite a big module even
though its only one block on this slide.
Now thereafter, we'll have a look at deployment.
How can you take your application you build, all your node code you build,
how can you take that and move it to a real server in the web and ensure that it runs there?
This will be shown there,
there I'll also dive into things like setting up SSL encryption. And once were done with that, I'll have
a short module on nodejs
functionalities beyond creating web servers with it because you can use it for other things too
as I will mention there.
And then we're done,
I'll end the course by giving you some next steps, potential ideas on how to continue and by then,
you will have learned a lot about nodejs and express and the many other things we'll dive into in this
course.
I hope you are as excited as I am and with that, let's quickly move on so that we can quickly get to
the point where we write code.